# SIM7600 LTE Modem Driver

This driver implements support for SIM7600 LTE modems for establishing
cellular data connections. It provides transparent TCP connectivity to
a remote server through the LTE modem, allowing MAVLink communication
over cellular networks.

The driver is designed to be used in conjunction with the ArduPilot
remote support server https://support.ardupilot.org, but can also be
used for any other TCP server.

If you don't have access to the ArduPilot support server you can
install your own using https://github.com/ArduPilot/UDPProxy

# Parameters

The script uses the following parameters:

## LTE_ENABLE

This must be set to 1 to enable the driver. Set to 0 to disable the
LTE modem driver.

## LTE_SERPORT

This sets the serial port to use for the LTE modem. This is the index
of the SERIALn_ ports that are set to 28 for "scripting".

## LTE_SCRPORT

This sets the scripting serial port to use for the LTE modem. This is
the index of the SCR_SDEVn ports that are set to 2 for "MAVLink2". This
port handles the MAVLink data that will be transmitted over the LTE
connection. You must first set SCR_SDEV_EN to 1 to enable scripting
serial devices.

## LTE_SERVER_IP0

This is the first octet of the server IP address to connect to. The
full IP address is constructed from LTE_SERVER_IP0 through
LTE_SERVER_IP3. Range: 0-255.

## LTE_SERVER_IP1

This is the second octet of the server IP address to connect to.
Range: 0-255.

## LTE_SERVER_IP2

This is the third octet of the server IP address to connect to.
Range: 0-255.

## LTE_SERVER_IP3

This is the fourth octet of the server IP address to connect to.
Range: 0-255.

## LTE_SERVER_PORT

This sets the IPv4 port of the server to connect to. This should match
the port that your ground control station or server is listening on.
Range: 1-65525. Default: 20001.

## LTE_BAUD

This sets the baud rate for the serial port to the LTE modem. Common
values are 9600, 57600, or 115200. The modem must be configured to use
the same baud rate. Range: 9600-115200. Default: 115200.

If using something other than 115200 you need to connect to the modem
with a terminal program and use AT+IPREX=BAUD to set the baud rate and
save with AT&W

## LTE_TIMEOUT

This sets the timeout in seconds for the LTE connection. If no data is
received for this time, the connection will be reset and the driver
will attempt to reconnect. Range: 1-60 seconds. Default: 10 seconds.

# Operation

This driver should be loaded by placing the lua script in the
APM/SCRIPTS directory on the microSD card, which can be done either
directly or via MAVFTP. The following key parameters should be set:

 - SCR_ENABLE should be set to 1
 - A SERIALn_PROTOCOL should be set to 28 (Scripting) where n matches LTE_SERPORT
 - SCR_SDEV should be set to 2 (MAVLink2) for the port matching LTE_SCRPORT

Then the flight controller should be rebooted and parameters should be
refreshed.

Once loaded, the LTE_ parameters will appear and should be configured
according to the parameter list above. The server IP address and port
must be set to match your ground control station or telemetry server.

# Status Messages

The driver provides status messages through the GCS indicating the current
connection state:

- "SIM7600: starting" - Driver initialization
- "SIM7600: found modem" - Modem detected and responding
- "SIM7600: CREG OK" - Network registration successful
- "SIM7600: transparent mode set" - Modem configured for transparent operation
- "SIM7600: network opened" - Network stack ready
- "SIM7600: connected" - TCP connection established
- "SIM7600: connection closed, reconnecting" - Connection lost, attempting reconnection
- "SIM7600: timeout" - No data received within timeout period
- "SIM7600: error response from modem" - Modem returned an error

# Physical Connections

The SIM7600 modem should be connected to a flight controller serial
port. You should preferably connect using a serial port with hardware
flow control support and set BRD_SERn_RTSCRS to 1 for that port.

Note that the SIM7600 can be quite sensitive to power supply
issues. The power from the serial port will likely not be sufficient.

# Troubleshooting

The driver creates a log file "SIM7600.log" on the SD card that contains
all communication with the modem. This log can be useful for debugging
connection issues.

Common issues:
- Ensure the SIM card is properly inserted and activated
- Check that the cellular antenna is properly connected
- Verify network coverage at the operating location
- Confirm the server IP address and port are correct and reachable
- Check that the serial port configuration matches between the flight controller and modem

If the connection fails or is lost, the driver will automatically attempt
to reconnect by restarting the connection sequence.
